+++
title = "Artix Linux Installation"
date = "2021-02-14"
tags = ["linux"]
cover = "https://i.redd.it/4gy5n9xr9dh61.png"
categories = ["Category 1"]
description = "My Artix linux installation process with detailed notes."
+++

# Why?

 Not long ago, my knowledge of operating systems was limited. I only thought that Windows and MacOS were the only operating systems in existence,but little did i know that
there was another universe out there. A universe packed with real freedom,better security, extreme customizability, faster and filled with an even larger community,
than my brain could ever comprehend. I remember the feeling of excitement that ran across my face, when i first installed a linux distribution on my personal computer. I ws finally able to depart from the world of claustrophobia inducing _windows_ and genetically modified _apples_, for a penguin? I was finally breathing the same air as the Xenial
Xerus (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS). From that point onwards, i would participate in the treacherous act of distro hopping. I experienced just about 
every linux distribution listed in the [distrowatch](https://distrowatch.com/) top 30 ranking at that time. I tasted various desktop environment flavors in search of more experiences and something tastier. I didn't exactly know what i wanted, but trying new things was just pure fun.
I encountered a wide variety of issues along the way, but the answers were only a simple search away. My displeasure for linux distributions gradually progressed and boiled down to confusion, which later turned to concern.
Every linux distribution i tried came preinstalled and preconfigured with loads of packages. I wondered to myself, "is there a linux distirbution out there that's minimal?" One question led to another and 
eventually i was reading about Arch linux. Arch linux was the answer that i had been looking for all this time, but the installation process was daunting. I feared that things could go wrong during the installation process, rendering my computer useless and being forced to buy a new computer. I never tried it, but the Arch linux principle of simplicity stuck with me. The Arch Linux wiki defines simplicity as _without unnecessary additions and modifications_ . The closest thing to Arch linux without the daunting installation process was Manjaro, a distribution that i had never tried before. Instead of trying the official editions of Manjaro, i decided to try the community editions. I did try all the community editions, but the one that truly captured my heart was the manjaro awesome edition. It was the fastest out of all the other community editions, at least with my hardware. One thing i noticed right off the bat was that almost all the community editions were bloated wth XFCE packages. At that point, i was contemplating on whether i should switch to Arch linux or proceed with the last Manjaro version i would try, Manjaro Architect. This time i wanted something that i could customize from the ground up. If its installed on my computer, it's because i put it there (simplicity). Upon searching for Arch linux based distros on duckduckgo, i stumbled upon one that had interesting wording, Artix Linux. Simple, fast and systemd free. The first keywords got me hooked in, but i was curious about this thing called Systemd. I did not find anything positive on the subject of Systemd. Almost every article that i read online despised this entity known as Systemd. The Arch linux wiki was neutral, as it simply stated what it is and nothing more.  Why do people hate systemd? Turns out every distribution i encountered had systemd. What's so special, about not having systemd? The only way to find out was to give it a try. I was scared to install Artix linux, but i knew that i had to try it. To ease my fear, i decided to look up an installation video on YouTube. To my surprise the Artix Linux installation videos were much shorter than that of Arch linux. I decided to takes notes during the process, so that if i messed up, i could know what i did wrong. With that long introduction, lets get to the fun part of how i installed Artix Linux. This guide will go over the same information that is available in the official installation wiki.

### Installation
